Test Research and Development Engineer Experienced in process development and optimization. Hands-on experience in clean room (class-1000) semiconductor fabrication processes (oxidation, thermal evaporation, wet etching, sputtering, spin coating, photolithography and thin film characterization). Quick to adapt to new technologies, industry experience in strategic planning, management/leadership, systems architecture, team development and technical problem solving. Proven track record of teamwork, excellent communication and documentation skill. International experience in APAC, and North America regions.

Areas of expertise include:  Phase Change Materials  Optical Properties of Materials

Statistical Process Control

Process Integration

Cadence / LTspice / Pspice

Device Fabrication and Characterization

Integrated Circuit Design

Layout Drawing

Ion Implantation

Additive Manufacturing / 3D Printing

Nanoparticle Ink Formation

Power Electronics

FPGA

Data Analysis



PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE



Optical Materials Engineer, Acara/L3 Communication - Boise, ID          07/2020 to Present

Design, develop and test optical coatings and test structures. Interact with deposition systems, lithographic, metrology, and other cleanroom tools; product engineering, developing and implementing test procedures and evaluating and selecting appropriate test instrumentation.



Provide multi-discipline support testing of new and existing designs and materials.

Applied quantitative analysis in determining root cause of highly technical problems and purpose, develop and implement solutions for corrective action.



Graduate Research Assistant, Boise State University - Boise, ID         08/2016 to Present

Conduct lab training sessions, preparation of safety regulations compatible SOP for various chemical, physical processes and lab equipment. Lab inventory management, consumables and equipment purchase, equipment setup and routine calibration. Project progress reports preparation and present finding during meetings.



Research is focused on applying high-temperature phase change materials, Ge-Se and Ge-S glasses for temperature sensing. Both thermal evaporation and printing method was developed for optical and electrical sensing of temperature using these PCMs.

Developed ball-milling and ultrasonication recipe of chalcogenide glass to achieve approx. 100 nm size glass particles for ink jet printing.

Developed ink for inkjet printing and screen printing of chalcogenide glass from elements (Patent Submitted: Chalcogenide Glass Based Inks Obtained by Dissolution or Nanoparticles Milling,  19975.105US01).

Modeling and fabrication of state-of-the art printed temperature sensor and wearable, flexible radiation sensors for Department of Energy and NASA respectively (Patent submitted: Thin Films Printed with Chalcogenide Glass Ink, 19975.104US01) .

Developed a chalcogenide glass etching process, from the gold-coated fiber, with amines and ultrasonication that can be completed in ambient lab environment. This reduced fiber and etching cost by 50%.

Designed and simulated PID controllers to optimize the deposition rate of a PECVD system.

Implemented with test bench a standard UART (Verilog), a Ticket Dispensing Machine using state machine (VHDL) in FPGA board (Zybo) as a part of hardware design course.





Intern, Fuel Performance and Design, Idaho National Lab - Idaho Falls, ID      05/2019 to 08/2019

Phase change temperature sensor fabrication for reliability testing under irradiation. Characterization of thin films using Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) and damage (DPA) calculation. Study of heavy ion induced damage on the crystalline phase of phase change material (Electrical and Optical properties). Designed and conducted ion irradiation experiment to quantify radiation hardness of phase change chalcogenide glass; established guideline and written Standard Operating Procedures for ion irradiation.

Grant: Principal investigator, NSUF RTE project "Performance and Structural Damage Analysis of Chalcogenide Glass Phase Change Temperature Sensors Under Ion Irradiation" (19-2832). The proposal reduced testing and characterization cost of the sensors by 70%.



Graduate Teaching Assistant, Boise State University - Boise, ID      08/2016 to 04/2018

Graded and assisted/mentored students in both undergraduate and graduate level courses with circuit design, and simulation in LTSpice and WinSpice. Supervised students in troubleshooting circuits and layout to eventually pass DRC and LVS in Cadence. Troubleshooting Cadence access issues via Nonmachine by working with university IT professionals. Assisted students build circuits and analyze data during lab sessions.



Tech Specialist, Robi Axiata Ltd – Dhaka, Bangladesh      04/2016 to 06/2016

Core network operational maintenance and troubleshooting of MSC for both 2G and 3G network.



System Engineer, Bangla Phone Ltd – Dhaka, Bangladesh      08/2015 to 03/2016

Managed and lead a team of 6 engineers to maintain and troubleshoot 500+ Node Bs (Network Operations). Prepared down reports and analyzed to reduce network downtime. Conducted training on SDH protocol and SOP preparation.



Developed and set up lab in the monitoring room to test faulty equipment and provide self- training opportunity of the employees. This reduced training cost and time by at least 10% and increased KPIs.

Reduced downtime of 2000+ Node Bs 0.01% while response time improved by 10% within 6 months. Balancing 24x7 high quality service and time flexibility to team members. Weekly meeting and presentation focused on downtime analysis with customers and management allowing to achieve these goals.

Implemented “Thunderbird” email client to the organization providing proof of its faster browser capabilities; convincing management to purchase outlook improving communication delay by 1-2% along with increased employee satisfaction.



Jr. System Engineer, Bangla Phone Ltd – Dhaka, Bangladesh      07/2013 to 07/2015

Designed, planned  nationwide optical fiber network (Connecting 586 Sub-districts in Bangladesh) and configured network equipment (SDH and Ethernet). Prepared bidding documents and worked on a project to plan optical fiber network for 1000+ Node Bs to establish a 3G network in Bangladesh.



CERTIFICATIONS & TRAININGS

COMSOL Multiphysics online training – COMSOL, Inc                                                                                                    05/2020

CompleteEASE Data Acquisition & Analysis On-line Short Course                                                                               07/2020

Artificial Intelligence Foundations: Neural Networks                                                                                                     03/2020

Artificial Intelligence Foundations: Machine Learning                                                                                                   02/2020

JMP DOE Intro Kit – JMP                                                                                                                                                      11/2019

New User Welcome Kit – JMP                                                                                                                                            11/2019

Silvaco for Semiconductor Simulation                                                                                                                               08/2020



EDUCATION



PhD in Electrical Engineering                                                                                                                                           06/2021, Boise State University – Boise, ID

Related Research Experience:

Skilled in the thermal evaporation of chalcogenide glass and metals on both Si/SiO2 substrate and optical fiber.

Developed chalcogenide glass/ phase change material nanoparticle ink for inkjet printing.

Simulation, fabrication and testing of temperature and radiation sensor.



MS in Nuclear Engineering                                                                                                                                           06/2016, University of Dhaka – Dhaka, Bangladesh

Related Research Experience:

Operational experience in a 3MW TRIGA, Mark-II reactor.

Analyzed bone scintigrams with OpenCV library using Python to correlate metastatic bone cancer with pixel ranges for various bone abnormalities.

Analyzed concentration of toxic metal elements in fruits and vegetables by Neutron Activation Analysis.



BS in Electrical Engineering                                                                                                                                           02/2013, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology – Dhaka, Bangladesh

Related Research Experience:

Developed a novel connection setup to apply Sweep Frequency Response Analysis (SFRA) for on-spot monitoring a transformer oil condition.

Implemented a PC interfacing circuit to transmit data from PC to a microcontroller (ATMega 8) to display characters in a self-designed (PCB) 5x7 dot matrix display.

Designed a fuzzy logic based MPPT for a solar cell in MATLAB Simulink.





COMPETENCIES & SKILLS

Statistical Process Control (SPC), Semiconductor Device Physics, SDH, Thin Films, Power Electronics, Microcontrollers, Power Systems, Algorithms, Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), Chemical Waste Management, Purchasing, MATLAB, Simulink, C, VHDL, Microsoft Office Suite, Excel, C++, PSpice, Verilog, Ellipsometry, Proteus, Cadence Virtuoso, Photolithography, Diffusion, Dry/Wet thermal Oxidation, XRD, JMP, R, Python, Chemical Mechanical Polishing, Geant4, OpenCV, Xilinx, Differential Scanning Calorimetry, Plasma Etch, Spin Coating, Inkjet, Microfabrication, TCAD, Simulation, Ion Induced / Radiation Damage, SRIM, TRIM, Design of Experiments (DOE), PVD, AFM, FIB, EDS, EDX, Raman Spectroscopy, Failure Analysis, Prototype Design and Fabrication, Optical Fiber, Optics, Optical Spectrum analyzer, Materials Data Analysis, AutoCAD, COMSOL, Optical simulation, Pulse Generation, Electrical Measurement, Device Characterization. 
